Palette PDE commands (#1725)
spectrocloud/librarium: docs/docs-content/palette-cli/commands/pde.md

---
sidebar_label: "PDE"
title: "PDE"
description: "Reference resource for the pde command."
hide_table_of_contents: false
sidebar_position: 40
tags: ["palette-cli"]
---

> The `pde` subcommand interacts with the Palette Dev Engine (PDE) platform and its resources. You can use the `pde` command to log in to Palette, manage virtual clusters, and switch the project scope. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `pde` command interacts with the Palette Dev Engine (PDE) platform and its resources. You can use the `pde` command to log in to Palette, manage virtual clusters, and switch the project scope. 
```

    | `--virtual-cluster-name`| The name of the new Virtual Cluster.  | string |

  ### Delete

  Use the `delete` subcommand to delete a Palette App deployment. The `delete` requires the name of the App deployment to delete. Use the `--name` flag to specify the name of the App deployment to delete.

  | **Flag**              | **Description**   | **Type**    |
  |-------------------|-----------------------|---------|
  | `--name` | The name of the App deployment. | string |
  | `--help` | Help for the `delete` subcommand. | - |

  <br />

  ### List

  Use the `list` subcommand to list all Palette App deployments. The `list` subcommand supports the following flags. 

  | **Flag**  | **Description**    | **Type** |
  |-----------| ------------------ | -------- |
  | `--name` | The name of the App deployment. | string | 
  | `--help` | Help for the `list` subcommand. | - |

  ### Update

  Use the `update` subcommand to update an App deployment. The `update` subcommand supports the following flags.

  | **Flag**              | **Description**   | **Type**    |
  | ------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------|---------|

>   | `--name` | The name of the App deployment. Only Apps pending an App Profile update are eligble for an update. | string |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  | `--name` | The name of the App deployment. Only Apps pending an App Profile update are eligible for an update. | string |
```

  | `--help` | Help for the `update` subcommand. | - |

## App Profile

> Use the `app-profile` command to manage app profiles. The `app-profile` command supports the following subcommands.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use the `app-profile` subcommand to manage app profiles. The `app-profile` command supports the following subcommands.
```

  * `create` - Create an app profile

  * `delete` - Delete an app profile

  * `describe` - Describe an app profile

  * `list`   - List app profiles

  * `versions` - List the versions of an app profile

  ### Create

  Use the `create` subcommand to create an app profile. You have two options to create an app profile. You can create an app profile using a configuration file or in interactive mode. The `create` subcommand supports the following subcommands.

  * `from-config` - Create an app profile from an app profile configuration file.

  * `interactive` - Create an app profile in interactive mode.

  #### From Config

  You can create an app profile using a configuration file. The configuration file must be in YAML format. The `from-config` subcommand supports the following flags.

  | **Flag**              | **Description**   | **Type**    |
  |-------------------|-----------------------|---------|
  | `--config-file` | The path to the app profile configuration file. | string |
  | `--help` | Help for the `from-config` subcommand. | - |s

:::tip

> You can create an app profile config file with the `interactive` command and using the `--config-only` flag.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can create an app profile config file by using the `interactive` subcommand with the `--config-only` flag.
```

Use the `cluster-group` command to change the cluster group that commands will target. You can also list all available clusters. The `cluster-group` supports the following subcommands.

  * `list`   -      List Palette Cluster Groups.

  * `switch` -      Switch your active Palette Cluster Group.

  ### List

  Use the `list` subcommand to list all Palette Cluster Groups. No additional flags are required.

  ### Switch

  Use the `switch` subcommand to switch your active cluster group. The `switch` subcommand supports the following flags.

  | **Flag**              | **Description**   | **Type**    |
  |-------------------|-----------------------|---------|
  | `--name` | The name of the cluster group. | string |
  | `--scope`| The scope of the cluster group. Allowed values are `project`, `tenant`, and `system`. | string |
  | `--help` | Help for the `switch` subcommand. | - |

## Registry

Use the `registry` subcommand to manage Palette Registries for App Mode. The `registry` subcommand supports the following subcommands.

  * `create` - Create a Palette Registry.

  * `delete` - Delete a Palette Registry.

  * `list`   - List Palette Registries. 

  ### Create

>   The `create` subcommand creates a Palette Registry. You can specify an Open Container Initiative (OCI) or a Helm registry. Use the subcommand `oci` or `helm` to specify the type of registry you want to create. The `create` subcommand supports the following subcommands. 

Reviewer: Does Open Container Initiative (OCI) need to modify anything here? Such as "...Open Container Initiative (OCI) _registry_ or a Helm registry."

Italics aren't intended for the doc - it's only intended to highlight the added word. :)

>   The `create` subcommand creates a Palette Registry. You can specify an Open Container Initiative (OCI) or a Helm registry. Use the subcommand `oci` or `helm` to specify the type of registry you want to create. The `create` subcommand supports the following subcommands. 

Author: ```suggestion
  The `create` subcommand creates a Palette Registry. You can specify an Open Container Initiative (OCI) registry or a Helm registry. Use the subcommand `oci` or `helm` to specify the type of registry you want to create. The `create` subcommand supports the following subcommands. 
```

  * `oci` - Create an OCI registry. Use the following flags to create an OCI registry.

  * `helm` - Create a Helm registry. Use the following flags to create a Helm registry.

  The following flags are supported by the `oci` and `helm` subcommands.
  
  | **Flag**              | **Description**                                                              | **Type**    |
  |-------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------|---------|
  | `--endpoint` | The endpoint of the registry. | string |
  | `--help` | Help for the `oci` or the `helm` subcommand. | - |
  | `--username` | The username of the OCI registry. | string |
  | `--password` | The password of the OCI registry. | string |

  The following example shows how to create an OCI registry.

  ```shell hideClipboard
  palette pde registry create oci --endpoint https://harbor.internal.abc.org  \
  --name internal-packs --username harbor --password *********
  ```

  ### List

>   The `list` subcommand lists all Palette Registries availble in App Mode. The `list` subcommand supports the following flags.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  The `list` subcommand lists all Palette Registries available in App Mode. The `list` subcommand supports the following flags.
```

  | **Flag**  | **Description**      | **Type**    |
  |-----------|----------------------|---------|
  | `--type` | The type of registry. Allowed values are `oci` and `helm`. | string |
  | `--help` | Help for the `list` subcommand. | - |

  ### Delete

>   The `delete` subcommand deletes a Palette Registry from App Mode. You can specify an Open Container Initiative (OCI) or a Helm registry. Use the type flag `--type` to specify the type of registry you want to delete. The `delete` subcommand supports the following flags.

Reviewer: "...specify an  Open Container Initiative (OCI) _registry_ or a Helm registry"?

>   The `delete` subcommand deletes a Palette Registry from App Mode. You can specify an Open Container Initiative (OCI) or a Helm registry. Use the type flag `--type` to specify the type of registry you want to delete. The `delete` subcommand supports the following flags.

Author: ```suggestion
  The `delete` subcommand deletes a Palette Registry from App Mode. You can specify an Open Container Initiative (OCI) registry or a Helm registry. Use the type flag `--type` to specify the type of registry you want to delete. The `delete` subcommand supports the following flags.
```

  | **Flag**              | **Description**                                                              | **Type**    |
  |-------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------|---------|
  | `--name` | The name of the registry. | string |
  | `--type` | The type of registry. Allowed values are `oci` and `helm`. | string |
  | `--help` | Help for the `delete` subcommand. | - |

## Virtual Cluster

You can use the `virtual-cluster` subcommand to manage Palette Virtual Clusters. Below is a list of the supported subcommands you can use. Use the `--help` flag to learn more about each subcommand.

> - `create` - Create a Palette Virtual Cluster.

Author: ```suggestion
- `create` - Create a virtual cluster.
```

> 

Reviewer: It seems occurrences that follow this initial "Palette Virtual Cluster" should be "virtual cluster" to follow our internal style.

- `delete` - Delete a Palette Virtual Cluster.

- `download-kubeconfig` - Download the kubeconfig for a Palette Virtual Cluster.

- `events` - View events for a Palette Virtual Cluster.

- `lifecycle` - Pause or resume a Palette Virtual Cluster.

- `list` - List Palette Virtual Clusters.

- `resize` - Resize a Palette Virtual Cluster.

### Create

> Use the `create` subcommand to create a Palette Virtual Cluster. The `create` subcommand supports the following flags.

Reviewer: Just "virtual cluster"?

> Use the `create` subcommand to create a Palette Virtual Cluster. The `create` subcommand supports the following flags.

Author: ```suggestion
Use the `create` subcommand to create a virtual cluster. The `create` subcommand supports the following flags.
```

| **Flag**              | **Description**                                                              | **Type**    |
|-------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------|---------|
| `--cluster-group-name` | The name of the Cluster Group. Defaults to the active cluster group.  | string |
| `--cpu` | CPUs (optional). Defaults to 4 cores. (default 4) | int |
| `--memory`| Memory (GB) (optional). Defaults to 4GB. (default 4) | int|
| `--name` | The name of the Virtual Cluster. | string |
| `--storage`|  Storage (GB) (optional). Defaults to 4GB. (default 4)| int |

> | `--tags`|  A list of tags seperated by commas  (optional) | strings |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `--tags`|  A list of tags separated by commas  (optional) | strings |
```
